                                                RECEIVED
                                                     JUL 21 2000 Initials
                  Authority of Director of                 1
               Central Intelligence Clarified



The following letter is considered to be of fundamental
importance to the CIA's responsibility in collecting UFO
Intelligence and redefines the authority of the DCI.      This
letter was written in 1962, signed by President Kennedy, and
directed to John A. McCone, who succeeded Allen W. Dulles as
Director in late 1961.   Prior to this letter, uncertainty had
prevailed among the various units in the UFO intelligence
community as to whether the DCI was simply head of another
agency or chief of the entire system.    The letter reaffirms
that the Director is both the President's personal
representative and the government's chief intelligence officer.



  In carrying out your newly assigned duties as Director of
Central Intelligence it is my wish that you serve as the
Government's principal foreign intelligence officer, and as
such that you undertake, as an integral part of your
responsibility, the coordination and effective guidance of the
total United States foreign intelligence effort. As the
Government's principal intelligence officer, you will assure
the proper coordination, correlation, and evaluation of
intelligence from all sources and its prompt dissemination to
me and to other recipients as appropriate. In fulfillment of
these tasks I shall expect you to work closely with the heads
of all departments and agencies having responsibilities in the
foreign intelligence field.

  In coordinating and guiding the total intelligence effort, you
will serve as Chairman of the United States Intelligence Board,
with a view to assuring the efficient and effective operation
of the Board and its associated bodies. In this connection I
note with approval that you have designated your deputy to
serve as a member of the Board, thereby bringing to the Board's
deliberations the relevant facts and judgements of the Central
Intelligence Agency.
                            -2-

  With the heads of the Departments and Agencies concerned you
will maintain a continuing review of the programs and activities
of all U.S. agencies engaged in foreign intelligence activities
with a view to assuring efficiency and effectiveness and to
avoiding undesirable duplication.
  As head of the Central Intelligence Agency, while you will
continue to have over-all responsibility for the Agency, I shall
expect you to delegate to your principal deputy, as you may deem
necessary, so much of the direction of the detailed operation of
the Agency as may be required to permit you to carry out your
primary task as Director of Central Intelligence.
  It is my wish that you keep me advised from time to time as to
your progress in the implementation of this directive and as to
any recommendations you may have which would facilitate the
accomplishment of these objectives.
