tm)                                                         1317
           Ketecrelosieal Nesearch and Develerment
           Respansibigitiss in the Air Ferees




  cataot A ra ea
             tetarate A se 1 et from
                      a
  Sr Kater ial Command, Fright er    ue Dorr
                                   sytany       thio, imedians armen’
  was teleen te activate A new
  weteerelejioal research end
                      ——~   EL   BACK    TK   ICT ACCT PTEN




            sar le
   it                  for rap & Deve,
   in the               dated




  eer
  y


  “hall:


sera




   lL Indl. = cy APDRE-@A
   itr +2647, same sabdje

       oa te aC/nsy
                                                                       18   Jui    1947


          Meteorological Research and Development
          Responsibilities of the Air Force



          Commanding General
          Army Air Forces
          Washington 25   D.   C.
          Attention:   Deputy Chief of Air Staff for Research
                       And Development            (for Major General
                       Curtis       R.   LeMay)


    1.     With reference to the 26 March 1947 letter from the Deputy
Chief of Air Staff, on the above subject, to the Commanding General,
Air Material Command, Wright Field, Dayton, this, immediate action
was taken to activate a new Laboratory having the responsibilities of
meteorological research and development,, and upper air research,
Within the Electronic Subdivision of the Engineering Division.

    2.       In view of the close relationship and interdependence of
research in meteorology and research in electromagnetic and com-
pressional wave propagation, action is being taken to reorganize
the present Applied Propagation Laboratory of Watson Laboratories
into the Atmospheric Laboratory,           and expand its    functions      to    in-
clude reséarch and development in meteorology and related geo-
physical fields.  This action is defensible not only because of the
close relationship of the research involved, but also because it
furnishes a going organization to attack the new responsibilities
which were delegated to AMC without the transfer of a going or-
ganization to carry them out.            At this point it is considered
appropriate to point out that the Air Materiel Command is ina
position where, for all practical purposes, a meteorological re-
search and development organization is being organized from the
ground up, that it will be some time, possibly as much as a year,
before a really active part can be played in this work.  Consider-
ing the importance and extent of the field of research outlined
in the letter referred to above, the twenty civilian position
vacancies transferred for this work can at best be considered as
only a nucleus of the eventual organization that will be needed
in this field.  The immediate problem, however, will be to find
qualified personnel to fill the seventeen remaining of the twenty
vacancies transferred, this in itself being no simple problem in
view of   the worldwide scarcity of         highly qualified    research per-
ltr to UAAF,      DC/AS for Res & Dev.,        “Meteorological Res     & Dev
Responsibilities
in the Air Forces”,        dated


sonnel      in meteorology,       and the present keen competition for those
personnel.


       3.       This command previously asked for 150 top-flight physicists
in connection with Upper Air Research,              This request was disapproved
and is mentioned at this time because the requirement still exists
not only in connection with Upper Air Research to meet overall AMC
requirements pertaining to Guided Missiles and aeronautic research
and development, but in connection with responsibilities assigned the
Air Materiel Command under paragraph 2 a of the referenced letter.

    4.    At the present time the Electronic Subdivision has com-
mitted approximately $1,600,000 during fiscal year 1947 (including
Budget Project 680 funds mentioned under paragraph 2 of the referenced
letter) on Atmospheric Research.  Approximately $500,000 additional
has been committed on compressional and electromagnetic wave research
which is closely allied to the atmospheric              field.

       5.       The amount of funds estimated as required to examine these
responsibilities during the fiscal year 1948 is $1,900,000.  Although
the justification of Project 680 — meteorological and climatological
Research and Development,            is not listed in the 3 February 1947 revised
Issue of the Engineering Division Research and Development Program,
Fiscal Year 1948,         it is listed in the “Justification of Estimates,
F.¥.    1948,    for Air Corps,      Army   (about May —47 — 1-20-47)       page   194
of the report, identification number 7-5768, AF.  It is planned that
this amount of funds will be defended by the Assistant Chief of Air
Staff —4 and made available for accomplishing the research and develop-
ment in meteorology and related geophysical              fields.


    6.    With further reference to funds requested for the F.Y¥. 1949
Project 680-11, Atmospheric Research and applied scientific research
of the upper atmosphere, a total sum of $6,000,000 has been specified
on page 260 of the Engineering Division “Justification of Estimates,
Fiscal Year 1949 Research and Development Program”, dated 20 May 1947.
The amount of funds asked will be required to accomplish the work
included in the responsibilities assigned to the Air Materiel Command,
Ang it is recommended that adequate support be given to obtain the
amounts      need for the Fiscal       Years   1948 and 1949.




1   Include.     — cy AFDRE-2A
Ltr    3-26-47,    same   subj.                         N.   F.   TWINING
                                                        Lieutenant General,         U.S.A.
                                                        Commanding
€C to AC/???
