    III, CONCLUSIONS

                 1,     Current studies of other-world visitation are in three
    phases
                        a,    Tachnology exploitation

                        ».    Interplanetary travel -


                        Se»   Gultural cemmunication

                 2.     On 19 September 197, the IAC, JIOA, and the JIC, reviewed
    a Top Sacret intelligence report titled REPORT TO THE PRESTDENT, "197 » PARTS
-   Ja¥, MAJIC EYES ONLY, DIG 0001909);            the report mentions:     "lm cempliance
    with your directive ... of 3         July 19:7, the attached "REPORT ON FLYING
    SAUCERS" is raspectfully submitted,        In consonance with your instructions,
    advisors from State, Treasury, "ar and Navy Departments assisted mo on a~
    two month exploratory missien concerning the reality of obher-world visitation,
    The principle investigators and storage areas were visited.            Successful efforts
    wera made to reach scientista      of all levels as measured by their work in
    classified defense prokects,       Conferences wers held with national sequrity
    officials and leaders of private      iniustry.        Approximately 1,200 memoranda and
    intelligences reports were considered, The ropert presents this situation
    against a global background my estimates, current and projected, in both the
    U.Se,   and allied cauntrias, and recommendations deemed to be sound courses of
    action for formulating plans and policies in light of recent developments.

                 3,    All efforts hava been made to identify the country or private
    concern wich ceuld have the technical and finacial resources necessary te
    produce such a long-range      flight, So far, no
                                                    country on this earth has the
    means and the security of its resourccs to produce suche


                 hh,   A consensus reached by members of the panel, that until
    positive proof that the Russians did not attempt a series of recennaisaance
    Sights | over our nos’ secure dnstallgtions—the sightings and recovered



                ‘. The occupants of these planform vehicles are, in most
    respects, human orhuman-like, Autopsias, so far indicate, that these beings
    share the same biological 1needsashumans,
                                           aD
                                            we



                                         a
                                       + sai sneneieedla
                     IV,     DIscussiong


                             A.        Mature of the Investigation.

                              An analysis has been made of the first one-hundred iatelligeace
                     reports ia the ATIC Imterrogatiom Reports amd the ULATT EXPLOITATION.
                     MAJESTIC SERIES 1-25, prepared by the Military Tmtelligesca Sectioe of
                     GHC/TPU,) ia erder te establish what materigl of flyiag saucer iatelligeace
                     valu®    coaceradag the ULATT
                                                 is availab
                                                         im these
                                                              le reports,

                                       1.    The ATIC Iaterrogatiow Reports: mmbere@ 1 to 93 (the Last
                             dated Decomier, 1950), present significant information om a bread
                             variety of aubjectas aad areag where wituessoa wors deotaimcd subsequeat
                             to the post-19)7 iscideat. The us-published documeats eompLitate records
                             of imterrogation derived from the accumulated reports on isterviews of
                             selected witmesses from NewMexico amd militarypersouncl involved im
                             removal of evidence.                              .

                                       24    In this(digest,)   primary atteation has besa paid to information          7
                             of ble-medical imtelligeuce latereast, particularly ia the BW programs,                     ~
                             Dio-medical imtelligencs is oaly one of the substaative fields: covercd
     oO                      by these Imterrogatiom Reports,

                                 3. For the most part, the sources laterrogated wore mot traiacd
                             observers, and their atories indicate they have beem subject to the
                             familiar pitfalls commoa to all cys witeessea. It must be emphasized
                             that, because the          iedermogators used were aot always spacialists is
                             this phenomena of celestial scieaces, there is mich lack of detail.

|      ee   ee   Se
                  Se a       ee   oe
                                       ln.   Because of the ueinue satura
                                                                        af the mateayjial
                                                                                  onder study, mo ou. fk
em iz affect.       Most.or the                                                    fultl-layere@-security   structure has” be
arch and developmeat Labs for                                                      results have beer given to private res:
                  —                                                                further study       —_
                                                                                         oo                 ~
umd om Ps        : development far                                                          MAJESTIC. SS&P oh currestly foc
       ==                  —                            .                          cota Wait CT activitiss.|
{lista has yielded valuable                                                           6. Utilization of Paperclip speoii
ws of Plight dymamics, biological                                                  results im mew weapoms research im are:
imtelTigence gathering techniqués,                                                 and chemical ageuts, mind comtrol, amd

                                                                                                                  =j-
                                             Se
                                              oe el
                                      eeel




      B,     Pamwel's Contribution ta MAJESTIC


              le   The contributioa of the President's Special Pamel to the
      MAJESTIC TWELVE PROJECT has supplemeated information om the ULATT
      Program which eeuld not bo ebtained imamyother way, Altheugh ely
      a small part ef the I yeast{ 973 eons    im techaical aad ble-medical
      Pield has. preduced at least            5,973 ltems fer—the files ef Military
      Intelligence, OHC/TPU,           Of      these items, (1,761, have beam published (up te
     December,
            1950) im-the
                       ULATI EXPLOITATICOW-MAJESTIC SERIES,                      The coverage
     “ef the Wew Mexice imcideats,             frem the over-all intellizeace point of
      viex, has been very          geod,     (After the Panel's review was initiated,
      aHe /IPU publishad ta Maron 1951, two summary "HAJESTIC SERIES," MWe. 98
      aud We, 99, of the seriés titled “New Medical Faeilities fer Bielegical
     Warfare; Wew Genetic and Pharmaceutical Develepmeat: Pregrans."                 These
      summary reperts have appareatly made ef mich ef the AEC file material
      siuce 6,01  items ara mow reported as published "Hadical ItemsTM i= the
      nInterregation RepertsTM — see MAJESTIC SERIES, Wo. 98, page 1.)
             2.    Fer the clarification of published reports or fer slaboration
      ef the infermatien ef fragmentary mature, resert may be had ta tho ABC .
      files of unpublished data as well as te the pessibility of reiaterre-_
        then
     gati    g
            sou rces,
      CG.    Review ef the Military issassmenmb

             With current deployment obligations, treep cemmitments, and few
air creups with stand-by fighters with radar capability, the Joint Chicfs
are unable at the preseat time, to effect wo cemplete and all-cacempassing
defense plan that weuld guarantee the pretectiom and well-fumctioning eof
the matiemal political erder,              Persemncl, material, amd logistical
requirementsfer such
                 a defonse would deplete curreat
                                              reseurces.                         If such
a crisis should eccurr—-im gevermenat failure te defend and assure the
public's trust, it is. the beliaf ef the Jeiat Chiefs, that the fellowing
weuld imsue! iaseeurity and mistrust: smpleyment of subversive ageats;
infiltration; luciters at ef diserder amd chaes to disrupt mormal ccememy
amd undermine pepular suppert of gevermmcat and its leaders; scisure ef
authority without refereace to the will of the people,


      D.      Technele
             At present, the ability te receastrict tha techaology that may
beeons      ahead ef us,   the   boost te     eur currest efferts weuld   be   incalculable,
Areas such ag aircraft and missile design would bencfit
                                                      e
                                                      enly after a working
understanding has been achieved,             Weapons sciences will fellow.
     EK.   Nuclear Weopeus Development

           Mimiturization of-atemic bemb compomeats is the geal ef the AEC
and the AFSWE., Studies at MIT imdicate that such a technelegy is within
reach befere the decade is-out, The apparent use ef micre-circuitry found
on the recevered planform indicates that miniturizatien, low-pewer trams-
missiea, Light cemducter/seasitive cempements are required fer interplanetary
space travel, Atemic engines and muclear prepulsiom techmelogies could
be advanced based upem current use ef hydregen amd electre-magaetic
research and weapons cempenents development im U.S, amd U.K,

     F,    Bielegical Warfare Pregrans

         EW pregrams ia U.S. and U.N., are im field test stages. Discevery
ef mow virus and bacteria agents se lethal, that seruns derived by genstic
reséireh, cam launch medical science inte unheard ef fields ef bielegy.       The
                    2




               a a




ofa retre-virus set tetally undorsteed, but, give
                                                premise ef the ultimate
BW weapem, The danger lies im tho spread ef airberne and Dleodborac outbreaks
ef diseases ia large populations, with mae madical cures available,

     G,    Genetic and Pharmaceutical Development Prererams

        Curreat research in U.3. and U.E., cam be accellerated whee studies:
are complete, Usderstandimg the humam makeup threugh ERE
                                                       reserach will bring
a varied wealth ef infermation in hew cells replicate themselves and may help
Gn developing
           new drugs
                 and markets, Healthcare industries
                                                 are considered the
best source ef BAD fer DeD precrams.

     H,     New Materials Development

            Cenclusiems reached by the Lir Materiel] Cemmand im 19/\5, upon
tha clese axamination of the material structure ef the Ceremz and Oscurs
Peak, MM. sites, compelled the Air Perce te launch a mew machinability
research pregram, Samples tested and evaluated by the AMC, suggested that
future materials weuld have te incerperate new alleys and composites, if
spaoo cxipleratien amd hypersemic dynamics are te be achieved,     Es a result,
mew machiming     techniques are underway fer high-temperature alleys and
titaniun,                                                            .

                                    Se
                              ———

       I,   Planned Future Rocket Development Pregrams

        There have beom a number ef falled high-altitude reeket Laumches
/@ study radiatiem effects on living organisms,  The Lir Ferce's Prejeot
 BLOSSOM, cenducted at Hellomam AFB, is but eme oxample, Y-2 recket
“Taunction at the White Sands Preving Greund, W.M,, have becm knecked down
 by undetermined Jamming, The source ef the jamming is believed   te come
 frem UFO sightings om or mear the range.         Guidance systems are believed
 te be rulncrable amd this presents a clear and presemt danger,          Such
 keeper flights carrying nuclear weapens are tee herrific te cemtomplate,
 Shielding ef systema amd circuits are underway.


       J,   Nuclear Prepulsiem Dewslepment Pregrams


         The AEC and WEPA are curremtly comducting research fer advanced
 techmolegies im atomic engines and radical _prapulsiesstudies, Systems
 studies at Les Alamos, M.M,, Oak Midge, Temm., and at Lamroly, Va., are
 attempting to duplicate thewater drive and plastic
                                               cere elements found
 on the engine being kept at HAFB,     Imtergration
                                             ef hydregem base feuls
 and   electre-hydredymamic technelory, may   epem up    fer us   development of
 super-aeredyucs with mach 5 capabilities,

       K.   Iwtelligence Qathering and Analysis.

        Based om what is kmown of the technelogy amd intelligence of the
visiters, it is fairly certain that there will be ether
                                                        sightings and
encounters
       ef a spectacular nature,          As te purpese and modus operandi,
 wo are not certain, but it is clear, that if these visiters had cenquest
 in mind, it would
                mot be difficult
                              fer them, givem their ability te
 penetration eur airspace at will, and their ability te jam radie, tolse-
 Phene, tekvision,   amd teletype transmissiems, let alens power grids.
‘Se far, reports and sightings are blatant amddeliberate, thus allowing
 our intelligence agencies te gather geeddata,
                                             As te the analyses ef
 such reperts, ealy acentimeus
                            wave ef sightings
                                        amd caceunters world |
 wide, weuld previde eneugk data fer a clear understasding
                                                         of intent,

       L.   Fereign Pelicy and Watienal Seaurity

         To date, only Great Britaim, Camada, and the Sevict Union, are
 comtaoted and appraised in the eventimvasiom  is cmimemt.  It is the
 current pelicy ef the Admimistraties that ne ether fereign countries
 will be censulted er advised,     The national security status ef the

 MAJESTIC operation exceeds that ef the H-benb development,
                                              =




                                      ~b=


                                an
                   MH.    Demestic and Constitutional Issues


                          In dealing with clear vielatiens
                                                     of civie law amd guarantees as
                defined under the Censtituties, it has beem discussed among members of
                MAJESTIC TWELVE, that such pretection of individual rights are eut-welrhed
                by the mature ef the threat, Only « declaration ef war er a national —
                emergency, would give the geverament the pewer te cmact martiallaw and
                recemd individual rights.


                   HB.    Secial, Religious
                                         and Scientific Reaction

                          It has been the         downfall ef creat matlems   and cultures whee o ace
                reality is mot readily accepted by the masgs.              The seclal erder was severely
                ravaged by the last world war, with great damages te the religious degaa of
                "earth without end,” thus making a covernmeat disclesure irresponsible and
                inherently damgereus,             The sciantific cemmnity would predictably questien
                such a reaction as a world suffering from a Buck Regers delerium and attack
                anyone ef their ewn ranks for believing such famatay,                  Sciamee itaclf, may
                underge a traumatic transfermatien, with belief structures in shambles,
                putting the institutions under scrutiny by the laymas, thus ereding any
                credibility,          Seience would be left with an image of oredulity,
                                                                              TS.




                   0.     Gold War Deve lopment

                          This   is   eme   ef   the most dangerous phesemenon of      the   twenticth
                century.     Te misidentify
                                          a flight of space abjects far actual Russian
                hombers,    or te dismiss        Russian bombers   as phantoms,   is   the mest idiatia
                approach te take, Even though governments may distrust each other, it is the
                responsibility and oreed of            the military and intelligence prefessienal te
                provent wanton death and deatructie
               Main
                  seme form
                      tain  ef dir                      communication w       h        2 ene           te
                taking false assumptions
                                      af his respense if falty data                          wrengly indicates
               such,      Even using the "Flying Saucer” ruse te create fear and cenfusien
                ameng your enemies leaders,            could result im accidental war,         Even our sarly
                analysis
                       of the recovered planforms in 197, led te the wreng assumption
                that     the Russians were preparing
                                                   a sneak attack en the centinent,


                   FP,    Goverment Policy ef Centre] and Denial

                          One of the most difficult aspects of controlling the perception im
                the publie'smind ef government attempts of denial and ignerance—-is actual.
               control ef the press, Until a clear intent is established with diplomatic
                 elatiens firmly in hand, it is the recemmendation ef the President's Special
                Panel with cancurrence frem MAJESTIC TWELVE, that a policy of strict denial
                of the events surfacing from Reswoll, N.M., and any other Incident ef such
                caliber, be enforced, A inter-active program ef centrelled releases te the
&
 ’




 ls.
                media, im such fashion te discredit any civilian investigation,
                                                                             be instituted
 Ae
       Y
                in accordance with the previsiof ns
                                                 the 19,7 National Security sot                    areca




t="
 Se
       :
                                                             =|~
           _
              Z.    The Panel's review of the ARC and APSWP investigation ef Site L-l
                    amd the dir Ferce Site   LT, has led   the Panel te cenclude   that
                    the objects under study, are the result ef 2 high altitude sjese
                    tiem ef « escape cylinder from a fatal mid-air cellisien ef
                                                                                two
                    uaidentified circular planferm aircraft
                                                         ef iaterplaactary naturo.
             Zo     Of particular interest te the Panel was Site L-2, lecated at
                    Lat. 33-10-31, Long. 106-28-29, as this site yielded the mest
                    material
                         fer analysis,


             Je     Site L-2 may bo closely associated with Site L-l, due te the
                    similarity of material recevered and that the impact at Site L-1
                    and debris pattern suggests that the oraft hit
                                                                   the ground at a
                    sharp angle and centimued te remain airborne until coming te rest
                    at Site L-2,

             4k.    Tho craft found at Site L-2, is either the remains ef a reckat-
                    plans, or, a pewered-glider, What remained ef the power plant
                    was examined and determined te be of a magnetic drive prepulsien
                    ‘pewered by a fusien reac
                                            ef ter
                                               serts.
             5. Lack of wiring, fuel systems, cables, motors, hydraulies, iatakes,
ms           "exhaust, and surface centrels, strongly suggests that tho craft
fe       7    _     Was designed te   travel eutside ef eur atmosphere,


     |       6.) The secend craft that inpacted at Site L-j, previded very Little
         =“ ewidence that it tee was similar in design, a5 the impact was
                    vertical im nature amd at very high speed. It is believed that
                    the debris discevered:em 2 July 197, by-@ lecal rancher was the
we                  result ef a mid-air cellisiem with an X-plane fren HAFE; anether
im                  unidentified objects er pessibly cellided with beth, Radar film
                    and tewor logs de aot cxplaim the merging ef three radar targets
                    prier te cellision and subsequent crashes.

              7,    There were-<_five receverd bodies, twe ef which were found im a
                    severely damaged escape cylinder, and the remaining three were
                   _ found seme distance away frem the cylinder,
                                                             All five appoared te
                    have suffered     from sudden docenp
                                                       and ro
                                                           hoat ssi
                                                                sufficen
                                                                      ation
                    (recevery and autopsies ef the eccupants are
                                                                 cevered in detail
                    in a seperate study GMAT SUIT within Prejacts 612 and 62       ULATD
                    EIPLOITATION-MAJZSTIC SERIES k, p. 40-102),
                                                             a5 a result e
                    damage sustained frem unkowm causes.
                                                       .


                                                   =i




     ASS
      SR ye             ee   a ae
                                                                                                                                      ANWXI & (Cont'd)

                                                                                    Tho Fane] was cencerned ever the contamination af several SED
                                                                                    persennc] upen coming in contact with debris near the pe
                                                                                    plant. One techniciam was evercemed and cellasped when he
                                                                                    ‘ettonpted the remeval ef a bedy,Amothar medical technician
                                                                                    went inte a cena four hours    after placing a bedy in a rubber
                                                                                    wedy-bag, 111 feur were rushed te Les Alames fer ebservation.
                                                                                    KY] Your later died of seisures ami prefuse bleeding, 211 feur
                                                                                    wore wearing pretective suits whem they eame im comtuet with
                                                                                _   bedyfloids from tho eccupants, —


                                                                          b         Lutepsies on the feur dead SED technicians are met ceaclusive. It
                                                                                    ia beliewed that the feur may have suffered frem seme fern of
                                                                                    texim er a highly cemtagious doscase. Tissue samples are currently
                                                                                    boing kopt at Fort Detrick, Md.

                                                                              Io.    The Panel was alse cencerned with the detection wir-berne releasa
                                                                                     ef radiation ever the state efMew Mexice. AFTAC detachecat fren
                                                                                     McClellan AFB has cenductsd several ‘airberse meniter flights ever
                                                                                     Site Lz, Radiation readings indicate ao high meutren ceunt was
                                                                                     recerded asthe) plane flew ever the site, Neutren ceunt ireppee
ee
                      .

                                                                                     eff as tho plane flew a considerable distance frem the site,
                                                                                                                                                A
                                                                                     repert bas boom filed with the AUS. ~
             ry



         ~
                                                                                                                    al           7
                -_n                                                                                                          L



                oa:
                                                                              i.     Detection of a high altitude explosiem was_recorded by @ Preject
                                                                                     MOGUL censtant level balleem om ) July 197.) Radar frem White
                      7



         a=




                                                                                     Sands Preving Greund and HIF alse aetected = surge.
                                                    =

         i             a
          .


                  od



                                                                                     Parachute recevery team frem FAFD were dispatched te Site L-2.
          :




                  eae                                                         12.
                                                                                     Upen arrival, the team, realising tha mature ef the crash,
                                                                                     radiesad imstructiens and marked crash site fer thea investigaters
          ee)
                  oe




                                                                                     that arrived later.
ee

          a       ee




                                                                         (33D Tu the opinion ef the senior AEC medical efficer, ourrent medical
        te ak
                  ors
        &




                                                                                                         are wholly inadequate in dealing with «
                                                                                     equipment and supplies
        ws
                  =,      ~                        -




                                                                                     large scale eutbreak ef the aliemvirus,
                                                                 1


        ei

                                         fe


       +. — ie
                          a
                              rage                                   a
                                                   Te bl
a                         ig
                                         Ta

                                                                                     Facilitios at Les Alames and Maye clinies were considered as
                                                   qa




                              ‘SsNa a
                                                             =




                          & | a
                  =,



~
                                         enc
                                                   -
                                                      a                              lacking im tha curremt climates

                                                                                    ( On 26 September 197, the first mecting ef the isc- 1 was held
                          Fa  Sy                      "
: Be
                                                   5

                              ome



                                                  ed _— olae -                       “te-discuss the New Waxice- incidents and hew te)tuplement the
                          4

                                        wb eee
       enw

                          el
                                                   uw                                policy established by MJ~12 sur,”“5
                       ”      Se

                                 gt] ie
           7”

                       A
                                                                 =                                                -§-
                             eee


                                            aoe




                            '*



                          dak)


       ae       m
                            |
                                   E
                                        =



                                            --



       =                           ST   1

                           So
                                   .f


                Led


       ee
                                   ,
                                        ©
                  he




                  a


oO

       TM
                                                      aE tne



                                                                                        A


 (1. | Upon the creationof the MAJESTIC TWELEVE OROUP by special
 SE — executive erder dated 2) September 1947, and givem powers ef
                 autherity vy PDO/I-1, dated 26 September 1917, the Pancl was
                 empewered te convene and comduct a review ef al] available
                 evidence and data cellected by gevermment and military
                 iutelligemos agencies,

      2.         Because ef the unique nature ef the 1947/8 crisis, the Panel
                 recemended ta MAJCOM—-] that the           authority
                                                                    of the Secretary ef
                 Defense be inveked in order te mp lem xt XSCID Ke. Wi.

 /              | 2 meeting wow held anf December 17> between CLA and LIC
           .:



     ‘ew   .


 \s="            eencerning the IAB, Dr, Vannewar Bush, Chairman
                                                           ef the Fanol,
                 requested the     te convey the centemts of a letter fre Dr, |
                 Bush te Seoretary Ferrestal, thus breaking the deadleck ever
                 issues cemcerning autherity and policy making dealing with tho
                 Mew Mexice incideats
                                   and subsequentexpleltatiem ef the finds, ee
                 ————    =




      lea
                 te thea Jenuary 1918-4 tthird
        Om 13 January 1948,
                                                party greup frem eutside ef tho
                                         he MSC, with imput from the Panel recommended
                 Gevernment he         sabablished fer the purpose of conducting = impartial
                 amd objective’               y of the activities and personnel of the Cli,

      Se         As a result of the DCI's lack ef timely intelligence estimates and
                 poer coordination of intelligence activities fer MAJESTIC                  the MSC
                 Survey Oreup issued its findings. At-the suggestion ef the Pamel
                 Chairman,     tee IAC met en_14 June 196, ‘at which the cenclusiens ef
                 the Survey Oreup were reviewod,

      G&         Om 1s Pebruary 19h9,- the IAC met for the purpose ef proposing some
                 changeste a “GTA draft proposal en HAJCOMactivities.
      Te General Jeseph McNerney, with the assistance of Carlisle Mumelsine
         and Robert        Blum, prepare NSC 5O/l. On 7 July 19L9,- theKSC adopted
                 the recenmendatiens ef WSC 50/1 which directed the DCI te enlist
                 the activities       ef the IAC in MAJESTIC     intelligence activities.

      8,         MAJCOH~1 meets with the Prosideat im May
                                                          1950.

      9,         Admiral Hillenkeetter leaves positien as DCI on 7 Octeber 1950.


      10.             MAJCOM-1 with assistance ef the Panel persuades the President to
                      establish the   Psychological Strategy Beard on ly April 1951.




                                                     qe   ticle,
                                                 aiden




2ES                      TH
                          ASR SARE
                               Y                           gl   eres            :       —             Sa   OE   ea
                  .                      cl     ee                     -            5

                                                                                                                 :
                                            = ao
                                                                     ANAKL B (Cont'd)

              Panel member and MAJCOM—, meet with MAJCOM-1 on 10 Octeber 1950)
              along with members of IAC. Tha Chisf ef Olebal Survey Group
              desired estimates requested by the Fentagon concerning possible
              defense project for MAJESTIC LOGISTIC|
                                                   SSP=1.


             On
              (6 December 1950, MRJCOK- alerts MAJCOM-1 ef » breach ia DEW
              Oresniand of@ UFO en w seuth-westernly course. HQ IPU alerted
              and dispatched « scientific team te El Indie-—Guerrere on the
             Texas-Maxico border, MAJCOH-, orders a recevory team
                                                                  frem Preject
             STORK and MOON DUST te crash site, Teams transpert debris fren
             crash site te ADC HAD and te AEG laboratories—atSandia,
             Maxvirce
                                                                  New
                      “tf




     135     MAJCOM-1 enlists the Pancl'’s aviatiencensultants fer the purpese
             of advising the {Princeten Consultants,”

     Us.
       Om 28 December 1950, MAJCOM=1 is provided with the "Black Boek*
             summaries propared by the Watch Committee, Begining avory Friday
             the President is briefed on world situation and on MAJESTIC via
             the CIA weekly Current Intelligence Rericw.


     Ie      at the request ef Panel member Cardinal Franc
                                                           is Spellman met
             with thea Fresident te disouss the centainment within the
             Catholia Church and its hierchy of religieus speculatien if
             masa sightings eccur. Such containment was successful during
             the 1917 sightings when Carding) Spellman met with the
             Secretary ef War en 29 June, Tho President has been briofed
      Z ra   on vetonse Flan IP, which was written in part by the Panel
             member»



     16.     Tm suppert ef the MAJESTIC program for developing atomic
             engines, Pane] members and their associatien with tha ik,
             the Armed Forces and the Natienal Advisory Cemmittes fer
             Aerenautics, have consulted MAJESTIC for the development of
             miclear fissien reacter for powered flight studies,©


     iT.     Atemic engines for alroraft muilt here om sarth fares mary
             difficulties because of size and weight ef the reactor and
             radiatien shielding, Such a nuclear power plant weuld give
             an aircraft unlimited range,
               — ——     EE




     18.     Panel mambers contributed te the writing of ULATT EXPLOITATIGCN-
             MAJESTIC       SERIES 5   titles Hysersenic Small—Disturbance Theory
             which gives consideration to a three-dimensional body fixed ia
             a steady, uniferm, hypersonic stream. Thea theory assumes that
             shock waves can be approximated by abrupt discentinuities and
             the planform bedy being thin, so that the slope of the local
             surface in the stream direction is umifermally small.




FY


nr      i                   .
                                                             ae
                                                         :                          REMIX B (Cont'd)


               I7.   MAJCOM-l;, = member of the Fanel was instrumental im supporting tha
                      the creation of the Air Force's Scientific Advisory Beard which
                     MAJCOM-5 endorsed,

               20.   MAJCOM-5 recemmended te the Air Force Chief of Staff, that the
                     Top Secret ropert Where We Stand, be                 the basis fer ULATT develep-
                     ment. MAJCOM-5 urged the COS ta enact the ideas of another report
                     Science, the Key to Air Supremacy, Major General Curtiss LeMay
                     Stall Directer ofResearch and Borelopnent secended MAJCOM-5
                                                                              'q
                     Views
                         »

               21,   The Panel Chairman argued for funding fer air defense prejests
                     that would be useful im cembating tha new menace instead ef
                     developing ballistic missiles, which have preved te be useless,

               22. Qa June
                         15 197,
                               Dr, Theedore vem Karman chaired the first
                     mecting of the SAS and discussed hew the Air Forces coulé
                     propare fer & possible air attack im Light ef the mumereus UFO
                     sightings ever tha U5,


               23. Ons May 1948,MAJCOM-L, arranged fer the prenulgatien ef Air
                     FerceRorulatio
                                 20-30,
                                    n which restered the pewers ef the SAS
                     az agreed upen by Karman and LeMay in 1916.

               2h-   MAJCOH-Y had a prepared speach read at a meeting of scientific
                     advisers en 7 April I9L9, highlighting mew Air Feree 24D
                     organisation and strictures aon UFO researeh fer ULATT,
                                                                             Karman
                     enlisted tha aid ef a Panel member te persuade MAJCON-li to
                     endorse              a seperate establishment free   frea AMC and Pewtagen
                     centrel,               —

               25,   On 2 January 1950 «i plan was presented te the Air Staff Couscil
                     ferseperaFLD
                              te fer ULATT,

               26.          On 23 Jamary 1950, Research and Develepment Command and the
                     Aip-             Staff Deputy Chief ef Starr fer Reasearch and Deve lepment
                     was created,

               Te Th May 1951, Panel menber MAJCOM—-ly emdorsed Karman's oreation
                     of LOAND and his presentation at the Fentagom of a lecture
                     called "Mebilisatien ef Scieatific Effert ia
                                                                  Western Europe
a




                                                                                               an
                     Countries,"                                                         .

                                                               -?-




a




a




ee




                                                                                                         ha
     ie   et          re    a   aes             1   ae
                                ad
                                                                    C
                                                                AMEET
                                                                aes




1.   Military cemmanders are taught = basic premise that the ideal
     defense as characterised by Karl ven Clausewitr,--is a "shield
     af blews," When an enemy attack begina the defender yields the
      initiative, using his      pared positions and knowledge ef the
      battls creund te slew Lts momentum and te strike the eneny
     with repeated, unexpected blown. Such # defense cam werk,
     only when the enemy is, datected, his stremgth known, his
     weaponry identified, amd, his tactics and mevemmnts are re-
     reals



fe    In the annuls of warfare mss disappearances of seldiers and
      their equipment are rare but are on recerd. Im the eighteenth
      century during the Spanish War ef Succassion, 4,000 soldisrs
     were reported te have disappeared, together with their
     weapons and equiament (herses included), Im 1885, abeut 600
     Preach celonial seldiers disappeared near Saigen, French
     Indo-China, without a trace ef them mor their equipment, On
     Augus® 21 1915, members ef tim: New Zealand Army Corps' First
      Ficld Company signed swerm statemats that they saw the One-
     Fourth Norfelke Regiment disappoar in « unusually thick brews
     cloud wich seemed te move and rese upward and vanished, There
     were ne traces ef the regiment sor their equipment, Me oxpla-
     natien cam be found in the histerical recerds of the Imperial
     War Museum archives, In 1939, ever 2,900 Chimess Watienalists
      treops were reported missing from thelr camp, just south ef
     Nanking, Again, men, equipment, guns, were missing though
     camp fires and mess tents ware undisturbed, During the Pacific
     campaign, there have beem instances where whele plateons and
     larger units seemed te have disappeared witheut any sign of
     combat er a struggle, Men, equipment, weapena-—vanish witheut
     a trace,     In all instances the disappearances: eccurred in
     trepical climate and in the heat of battle er near combat
     genes,



ds   Missing aircraft, pilots and crews, are ef special concern
     te the military when no explanatiens fit the usual reasons
     outside of combat, One such inoidant is the disappearance ef a
     flight of five U,S, Navy TBM.3 Avenger torpede bombers frem
     BAS Fort Lauderdal’    on 5Decembex 1945. While no explanatien aa
     to why navigation instruments on alll    five aireraft could have
     failed at the same time, and efferts te resevue the Lh crewmen
     were umasuccessful, it is believed that Flight 19 enseuntered a
     phenomenen of celestial nature. The last knowm radie tranomissien

     from the instructer pilot was heard by a ham operator, “Don't come
     after mt.» « they lesk like they are frem outer space. . « I'm
     at 2,300 feet. Den't ceme after ms," *fter ene of the most intensive
     air-ses rescuc operatiens in U.S, naval histery, the Naval Beard of
     inquiry said,=we were not able te mke even a geed guess as te what
     happened.”

                                     =Lj<
[ SEE




                                           -                        AMWEX C   (Cont'd)

        hh.    Om 7 January 19,8, » ANG F-51 pilot was lest near Geman AFD,
               Kentucky, After being directed te lead his flight of feur F-5ls
               by tha tewer, Captain Thomas Mantell pursund = large metallic
               ebject alone after two pilots returned te Godman AFB, and finally
               his wingman was ordered te return te the field, It is beliawad
               that Mantel was fellowing a large, structured abject not in the
               flight path of a classified Navy SXTHOOK balleon, Mantel] radiead
               Godman tewer that he was at 77,000 feet and still climbing. At
              on¢ point Mantell said that the object had paced his aireraft for
               several mimites, then would speed ups His last transmission to
               the tower was, "It appears te be a metallic object , . » and it
               is ef jyemendous size . « « It appears to be & metallic object
               or pessibly the reflaction of sun from a metallie sijast," When
               Godman personnel arrived at the crash scenes, Mantell's F-51
               was   feund in many pieces, not large sections   as one would find
               frem a free stick descrap The wreckage contained unusual damaga
               as if Mantell's plane was repeatedly hit by shetgum blasts,
               Somes ef the metal had pitted surfaces and uweusual scoring. 411
               rubber material had disintegrated im w» soft pewdery substance,
               There was no indication ef gunfire damage eg feul burn. The
               crash site and debris exibited an unusually high amount of
               Tadiaties?f undetermined nature, The site was cleared of dbris
               and cevered, Mantell's plane was subsequently sent te Wrigcht-
               Patterson AFB, Ohie for examinatien. 4 autepsy was cenducted on
               the body and interned in storage for future study. It is believed
               by the Air Feres investigaters that Mantell's plane hed been
               destreyed by a2 ienisatien phenom man, possibly fren the prepulsien
               wash of the ebject's exhaust,


               Frem 19,9 ta late 1950, there have been several crashes ef 3-36
              “bombers on reutine artic patrol that bear all the earmarks of the
               Mantell incident, None ef the crews were feund, The atemic bombs:
               were net recoverwd, thus creating a serieus problem fer the Air
               Ferce when nuclear weapons are lost ever friendly countries.


        Oe     The death of twe Air Forca counterintelligence efficers im the
               erash of their B=25 aireraft enreute te Hamilten AFB, Califernia,
               after interviewing twe auxiliary 0} men whe reported six UFOs ever
               Maury Island, Washington, in June 197, CIC       agent Crisman had
               spoken te Kenneth Arneld,   whe on 26 June 1947, had reported a
               flight of UFOs”over Mt, Rainier,’‘Washingten, and filed his report
               after he had spoken te Captain Davidsen and Lisutenant Brews,
               The material given to Davidsen and    Brown was ‘palieved to come
               frem Maury
                        Island and may be celes        1 fragments containing
               metal frem @ nuclear reacter from &UFO, Fragments were turned
               ever to CIA agent Shaw, and Cripman was ordered te the Alaskan
               ADC for assignment in Project |Ivt,




                                      nn
                               eS
                                                       AMTEL C. (Cont'd)




Te   Aerial interference with military alreraft has demenstrated the
      ability te ebserve our air operatiens im war and peacetime
     conditions, During ths war over 900 near=-aiss incidents were
      reported by allied pilets and crews in all theater ef operations.
      One of the most dramatic ne      ss encounters eccurred on_1h
     _Octeber 1943, Sth AF Mission 115 over Schwienfurt, Germany, B-17
      crews reported many format,    of silverly discs flying down inate
     the B-17 fermations. Several times during the bombing missien, large
     objects were seen following the discs descent into tha formatiens,
     Unlike previous reports, no engine failures or airframe damage was
     reported. After the surrender of Nasi Germany, GAF fighter pilets
     were interregated by AF intelligence concerning Missien 115, OAF
     did not have any aircraft above our bombers at that time,

     Om L dugust 1914, a C-7 piloted by Captaim Jack E, Puckett,
     Assintant Chief ef Flying Safety fer TAC, experienced a near-miss
     of w eylindrical-shaped aircraft about 100 meters im length, The
     incident eccurred at an altitude of 4,000 feet, northeast of
     Tampa, Florida. Just 1,000 yards en a cellisien course, the UFO
     flipped ever sideways, crossing the flight path of Puckett's
     C7, Three other crew members ebserved the UFO and described it
     as being over twice the length of a B-29 and cylindrical in
     shape with luminated windows, Observers en the C-l\7 reported «
     stream ef fire trailing the esbject. The erew and Puckett watched
     the UFO for ever three minutes, TAC radar stations had tracked
     a large target approaching the C-7 and them performed a right-
     angle course change while flying at spends ef excess. ef 600 mph.

9.   On 1 October 19,8, a ANG F-SL pilot engaged a blinking luninmus
     UFO in a dogfighte-style encounter over Farge, North Daketa.

      Om 2k, April. 299, engineers and technicians frem the White
      Sands Freving Greund observed a elliptically-shaped
                                                      object
      moving in a eastward course at very high altitude, The ob-
      ject was discevered while tracking a Skyhook balloon threugh
      a theodolite, The object appeared whitish  in celor and pale
      yellow at the tail end. The ebject was estimated te be tywo-
      and-a-half times as long as it was wide. It was difficult to
      geo any structure of the ebject as it was moving at a very
      high speed, The object was observed through a theodolite fer
      approrimately ene minute before disappearing in # steep
      olimb, The ebject was estimated to be traveling at an
       altitude of over 60 miles,
         &                                           a
                                                     ;                             ANNEL C    (Cont'd)


             11.   Frem 19 te carly1951, our atomic bemb and
                                                             ceapenent plants
                   have Been thetarget
                                     of UFO reconnaissance. Of late, our NEPA
                   projects are of special attention te the visiters, During
                   seme ef the flights, radiatien level
                                                       s have risen sharpely,
                   then drepping suddenly to normal. In some instances plute
                                                                             niun
                   preduction has been halted dus te centa
                                                           mination ef plant
                   personne] during these sightings ef lew-level flights:

             12. (Om 25 October 1950) the Superintendest of Security, Oak Ridge,
                   filed a security report for I-10, He stated that a round
                                                                            ebject,
                   about ten feet in diameter, burmished ye
                                                               llo
                                                                in color
                                                                     w, hung lew
                   ever the Control Zena, The ebject would move slightly frem one
                   side te     tle   other and emit       a low hum sound.

             13. /On 2h Octeber 1950, the Assistant Chief of Security, NEPA
    iy             Division, Oak Ridge, observed a similar ebject near the
    af             restricted area (Restricted Fying Zone), The ebject emitted
                   a varying color of light frem red to green, to blue te
|:                 erangs, This sighting was confirmed by a Air Force efficer
et                 also of NEPA Divisien,       Oak Ridge, Radar from Knoxville
    @              Airport     tracked   several slow       moving   targets flying    ever   the
 .                 Southeast seeter of the "Restricted Zone”. Fighters
                                                                       were
{ii                vectered to the radar targets but the pilot repor
                                                                       ted
                                                                        no
‘Re                Visual contact.
                                 —
|
{            lk,   Naval aircraft with nuclear weapons delivery capability have
     i,            reperted a sudden drop       in       nentren counters,      Aircraft   carrier
    of             sterage of nuclear weapons have alse reperted unusual neutren
                   counts. During recent NATO naval maneuvers, the USSFranklin
                   D, Roosevelt has been trailed by numereus UFOs for leng perieds
                   on-and-off since 1950, §)

                   CON
                    LYS IONS
                           C :

                   The future of American citisens and the world for that matter are
                   jeopardized today by developments as_per
                                                              tentious asthose leading
                    te World War II, Givén the grow
                                                    ing challenge from the Soviet
                   Union and her satellites and the intrusien of extraterrestria
                                                                                 ls,
                   the United States is compelled, therefore, te
                                                                 initiate realistic
                   dines of actien toprotect United States strategic interests.
                                      Oo




                   RECOMMENDATIONS
                                 ¢


                   It ds recemmended?
                   That the United States Government provid
                                                            e as carly as practicable
                   moral,     advisory, and   material       sv port te   the    MAJESTIC~12 Projeot.
                   ‘in order to contribute te the early establishment of pea
                                                                           ince
                                                                              tho
                   world in censonance with the enunciated principles
                                                                      ef the United
                   Nations,and to protect United States strategic interests against
                   ferces which now thre    them
                                              at . en

                                                           alin
