                                   TOP SECRET                   NSCID 6 AUTHORITY 1
                                    EYES ONLY                   NIA DIRECTIVE 9/ 00259

   THIS DOCUMENT RETAINED FOR HISTORICAL PURPOSES


                  DO NOT REMOVE FROM ARCHIVE


                   DO NOT RETAIN FOR FILES
                    DESTROY AFTER READING




                             Presidential Briefing Document




                             INTELLIGENCE ESTIMATE


                                 SEPTEMBER 30, 1947




      UNIDENTIFIED ATRCRAFT SIGHTINGS OVER THE
                                                                  UNITED STATES _




               PREPARED BY SPECIAL STUDIES AND EVALUATION
                STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
                                           AND
                         OFFICE OF NATIONAL ESTIMATES
                        CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY




                                       WARNING!

This is an official intelligence estimate pertaining to the defense
                                                                    of the United States and
its possessions containing critical information essential to safegua
                                                                     rding national security
and foreign policy interests. Dissemination of its contents to
                                                               unauthorized personnel not
cleared by the National Security Council Staff is strictly
                                                             prohibited and punishable by
federal law.


                                                           TS CONTRL NO. 7300405

                                  TOP SECRET                    A 20707 5/4/54/050
                                                                      NSA AUTHORITY
                                   EYES ONLY
                                                                            CoPy 10F1
                                   TOP SECRET                    NSCED 6 AURHORITY /
                                     EYES ONLY                  NLA DIRECTIVE 8 00250


                                                                                  Page 1 of 5

ESSENTIAL ELEMENTS OF INFORMATION


As-of May of this year there have been a number of wnidentified. aircraft sightings
recorded by military intelligence sources over the continental United States, its territories
and possessions that have been ufiaccounted for. These sightings have been reported by
qualified military and civilian pilots, responsible ground observers and ordinary citizens
which cannot be disputed by our defense intelligence organizations. Until June 26 these
sightings were discarded as symptoms of over zealous reaction due to the publicity arising
from the suspected. Soviet. rocket.testing over Sweden.and.some. parts of Exarope of the
previous summer. During the month of July of this year numerous sightings of
unidentified aerial objects over our top secret proving ground and atomic weapons storage
facilitiesin New Mexico prompted an immediate investigation by military and ARO
security officials. So far, no indication of hostile intent has been observed nor have we
sustained any attack on our soil. Elements of the Air Force and Army technical
intelligence commands have given serious attention to the possibility that some foreign
‘power has developed ‘advanced aerial capabilities such‘as high’speed, high
maneuverability and unconventional propulsion technology thatis outside the scope of
our science. Thereis speculative talk among concerned air intelligence experts that these
objects may be of interplanetary origin, but as of to date no physical evidencein the form
of crashed or captured remains of these objects has come into our possession that would
warrant such conclusion. Since June the offices of the Air Materiel Command has
undertaken the responsibility of collection and analysis of the phenomenon as part of a
joint military and AKC intelligence project to determine any and all specifics related to
the problem.


Bi             OF SO             AB           Ss

The best estimates obtained to date suggest that Soviet air power and rocket research based
on all intelligence we have still lags far behind that of our force strength in long range
bombers and guided missile development. Damage sustained by Germany'sinvasion and
destruction of the country's manuf:acturing infrastructure during the war has severely
limited what resources exist to engage in such bravado. Tf the Soviets could developin
such rapid pace an advanced long range aircraft or missile the probability of venturing
into our air space with such numbers without some of the reported objects running out of
fuel and crashingis considered very remote. Such intrusions would surely be taken as an
act of war by the military and retaliatory measures by our government would be most
apparent by both. We are though convinced that Soviet atomic research may be underway
and captured German scientists along with sufficient material recovered by the Soviet
military could be utilized forimproving their military power base if sufficient quantities
were acquired. We do know that the Soviets along with British, French, and Canadian
technicalinspection teams did acquire experimental aircraft and aerial weapons after
Germany's capitulation and secret researchis being performedin these countries based on
these technologies. In our informed opinion the sighting reports are not of Soviet origin
and we wish to emphasize that even if the Soviets could be engagedin aerial
reconnaissance of our restricted air space covering vast distp > e@Onteienod 7300405

                                   TOP SECRET                     A 20707 5/4/54/050
                                                            :           NSA AUTHORITY
                                    EYES ONLY                                 COPY 1OF1
                                        TOP SECRET                 NSCLD 6     AUTHORITY 4
                                        EYES ONLY                  NIA DIRECTIVE 9 00259




                                                                                    Page 2 of 5

it is highly improbable in light of the obvious implications that the Soviets would risk
loosing a technical advantage by. openly disclosing what they have achieved in long range
aircraft or missile development in such a cavalier fashion.


ESTIMA!          OF   DOMESTIC     C.              Ss

4A comprehensive survey of all experimental aircraft and guided missile research
                                                                                      projects
currently underway in the United States was conducted to determine if any of the
reported objects may have been thé result of classified aeronautical research tests within
the time frame of the reports. Detailed summaries of all aircraft and missile projects
                                                                                       that
could have accounted for a number of sightings over our White Sands Proving Ground,
Fort Bliss Gunnery Range, Ios Alamos Laboratories and supporting air fields reveals no
project capable of the flight characteristics associated with these objects. We contacted
officials at NACA, NEPA, AEC, and of the armed forces responsible for overseeing the
existing aeronantical research projects and have concluded that none of the reported
objects were remotely connected. It is possible that with current air capabilities of the
military that some of the reporied sightings may have been misinterpreted for so-called
“Flying Saucers” or “Flying Disks” especially in light of the fact that we do have classified
weapons tests currently in progress in some states and for security reasons could not be
divulged publicly. We have also considered other possible sources for the reported
sightings such as weather balloons, errant aircraft, celestial phenomenon, aircraft
observed under unusual atmospheric conditions, flying debris, and migratory birds. It is
also possible with current technological understanding in civil aeronattical concepts that
some of the sightings may be due to private enterprises not known to the public.


EST OF THE
   IMA     SITUATIO
               TE   N

Eextracts collected from military intelligence reports to date indicate the folowing
sitnation as it exists.

           Ronghly 20% of all domestic sightings remain unexplained.
   se      There have been no loss to our aircraft in pursuing the unidentified aircraft.
           There have been no loss to our ground defenses.
   ae      There have been-no loss to our naval forces.
           There has been no breach of security in our atomic weapons program
   he      There have been no reported injuries to the civilian population.
           Public alarm is minimal.     .
           Foreign espionage in our defense projects is not apparent.
           Domestic and foreign press coverage is at low ebb.
           Onur air defense is at a high state of readiness for possible contingencies.
   Foren   Onr military and civilian defense intelligence agencies are aware of the problem

In formulating information on unidentified aircraft sightings the Air Force in
cooperation with the FBI and the CLA have produced a woOHBOWTRER:o°428b4
                                                                                             05

                                        TOP SECRET                  A 20707 5/4/54/050
                                                                          NSA AUTHORITY
                                        EYES ONLY                               COPY 1 OF 1
                                    TOP SECRET                  NSCID 6     AUTHORITY
                                                                NIA DIRECTIVE 9 0025¢       =]




                                     EYES ONLY

                                                                                 Page 3 of 5

provide solvable solutions and contingency plans should the phenomenon prove to be non-
terrestrial in nature.                           a


The reported objects may be remote controlled reconnaissance drones of a foreign power.
First publicized reports surfaced in the northwest United States and CLA believes they
may have been experimental aircraft based in Canada. If such eventually proves to be the
case, then the United States would have to be advised by the Canadian Government of
-such intrusions in the future. CIA believes this is the most plausible hypothesis.

The reported objects may be errant radar targets suspended by balloon trains released by
mnilitary weather service units located.on or near high security installations for radiation
monitoring of atomic weapons tests from the Pacific proving grounds.


The reported objects may be classified U.S. aircraft and as such requires absolute security.

The reported objects may be classified weapons tests.

‘The reported objects may be jettisoned warheads of classified guided missile tests.


A second solution devised for this estimate may be found in the experimental work of test
flying captured German flying wings originating out of air fields in New Mexico or
California and the east coast.


A third solution, one that is not considered as the best for this estimate may present itself
voluntarily in a large population center of the United States and would require an
extremely coordinated action on the part of the military. There is always the possibility
that one or more of these objects may land in full view of the public. We cannot rule out
this possibility and may present political problems for the current administration. We
draw on the 1938 radio adaptation of H.G. Wells's War of the Worlds panic as one
example of public alarm which clogged defense communications temporarily. In our view
such an incident could trigger nation-wide panic and invite aggressive actions by the
Soviets at a time when our defense communications are most needed for open channels
with our overseas commands.

ESTIMATES OF INTERPLANETARY CAPABILITIES

The best intelligence we have on the'capabilities of a presumed interplanetary power
possibly behind unidentified aircraft is at best rudimentary and lacks specific
information deemed useful for presenting a complete picture of intent and weapons —
capability. What we do know is enumerated. below based on everything collected by our



   1.   They appear to be circular or wing-shaped aircraft with light reflecting surfaces.
   2.   They can achieve tremendous bursts of speed and. arenengORTRIERBE F¥oGA0 5

                                   TOP SECRET                     A 20707 5/4/54/050
                                                                        NSA AUTHORITY
                                    EYES ONLY                                COPY 1 OF 1
                                         EYES ONLY                   NIA DIRECTIVE ¢ 00258




                                                                                    Page 4 of 5

         out fly anything we have in the air.


          They appear as large as man-made aircraft compared with our largest bomber.
   aw     They can appear to stall in mid-air and accelerate to super-sonic speeds in an
          instant.
   ow     Some reports state that they are solid objects that create holes in cloud formations
          and produce loud roars when accelerating,
          Some reports state.that they seem to vanish into thin air and reappear instantly.
          They may be piloted aircraft or reniote controlled:
   OND    Some reports indicate that the objects are associated with brilliant fireballs that
         - enter our atmosphere and seemingly explode leaving no trace materials.
   9.     They appear evasive when approached by our aircraft.
   10. No radio contact has been made with the objects.
   IL Ground observers have been able to track by radar and by optical means
                                                                                    groups and
          formations numbering: between three to twelve at'atime:
   12. Some civilian and military pilots have reported instrument and engine failure
       when approaching too close to these objects.
   13, Their appearance over military and civilian defense instaHations may fall into a.
          reconnaissance pattern but. is not recognizable at this time.
   4. There is speculation that some form of nuclear propulsion may be evident in some
          of the reported sightings though the prevailing opinion suggests that these objects
          are propelled by a solid rocket motor or gas propellant.


Though the frequency of sightings particularly between June and July are consistent with
conventional aerial reconnaissance operations given the excellent visibility over
                                                                                    some
strategic sites in the southwest with little cloud cover to obscure photography to record
storage depots, airstrips, parked aircraft, anti aircraft batteries and. locations
                                                                                   of atomic
weapons manufacturing plants. As of to date, no clear pattern has been observed by the
sightings since reports are sporadic and random and leaves our intelligence with
                                                                                 no clear
picture of what may be developing at present. A special stody written for the Air Force
on the possible utilization of earth orbiting satellites concluded that photographic
information of any land mass could yield considerable intelligence regarding
                                                                                   a country's
manufactaring and transportation capability and disclose the locations of its defense
establishments. It is possible that some foreign power has placed artificial satellites
about our planet and is utilizing remote controlled reconnaissance drones for this
purpose.                                                                   :
A recent evaluation by the U.S. Air Force Air Materiel Command has been forwarded
                                                                                            to
Headquarters, Air Force which strongly urges a classified code name intelligence project
be implemented for the forwarding of all essential elements of information and
                                                                               periodic
reports be submitted to scientists of the Armed Forces, the Atomic Energy Commissi
                                                                                   on
and other concerned defense agencies for opinions and feed back for a better
understanding of the nature of the phenomenon. Communication intelligen
                                                                        ce agencies
have issued specific directives to all
                                         concerned reporting MP CORTRE
                                                                                ROPF300405
                                      TOP SECRET
                                                                      A 20707 5/4/54
                                                                                     /050

                                                                          NSA AUTHORITY
                                         EYES ONLY                              COPY 1 OF 1
                                   TOP SECRET                   NSCLD 6 AUTHORITY
                                    EYES ONLY                   NIA DIRECTIVE 9/ 00259

                                                                                 Page 5 of 5

information relative to unidentified aircraft sightings immediately for further evaluation     |
by the Air Force and CIA.




Pending any further developments along these lines of discussion it is our belief that
what we are up against is controlled by intelligent operators who for the most part seem |
particularly interested in our atomic weapons facilities, nuclear Inaterial producing
plants, locations of our air defenses, and dispositioof
                                                     n ou¥ defense industry. “We could
speculate further that this situation may have a connection to the first sighting reports
recorded by our air forces during the war and last year's rocket scare but we have little in
the way of hard proof to establish this. What we do know is that these objects are real
and not illusionary. We still hold out to the possibility that the Soviets may have pulied
off a brilliant aerial reconnaissance operation of our country. This is remarkable, if true,
given:-the fact that:we have so far been unsuccessful in accomplishing this same feat over
the Soviet Union.                             :                                   :




                                 Octobe
                                      294,
                                        r 19b2
                         Harry
                             S. Fremeare




                                                            TS CONTRL NO. 7300405
                                   TOP SECRET                    A 20707 5/4/54/050

                                  _ EYES ONLY                          MSA COPY 2 OF 1
