       C,   German science has a 25 year bead in rocketry and space craft
 degign, but was not capable of space flight in 19h5.

         De.        Either some nation, not known to U.S. Intelligence, has developed
 an advance nuclear propulsion space craft-eor the technology currently under
 study is from another planet or solar system.

         E,         Liaison with foreign intelligence channels must contime until
 this problem is resolved,

         F,         Priority given to reported sightings and landings must
 contimue in the national security interest.

IV, DISCUSSION:

    A.         Nature of Survey.

         An analysis has been made of the first one»hundred publications in
 the AFSA Unidentified Flying Object Intelligence Reports, prepared by the
 U.S. Army Security Agency, the U.S, Naval Security Group, and the U.S. Air
 Foree Security Service, Additional reports were reviewed which originated
 from respective branches intelligence departments, These reports were
 produced in order to establish what material of UFO intelligence is
 value in relation to the New Mexico incidents and the ongoing MAJESTIC
 PROGRAM,

            le   The AFSA UFO Intelligence Reports, numbered 1 to 100 (the
         last dated December, 1950), present significant information on a
         broad variety of subjects and areas where UFOs were sighted in the
         air and on the ground (few cases alleged undervater take~offs) since
         1946, The published documents consolidate records of derived from
         the accumilated reports on the intervins, radio and teletype signals,
         military and civilian radar films, official goverment commniques,
         and intelligence agents, here and abroad,

            2.   In this digest, primary attention has been paid to informa-
         tion of technical intelligence interest, particularly in the muclear
         weapons and propulsion developments in the Soviet Union,

            3-e  For the most part, the sources utlized were not specially
         trained observers, and the sources may have been subject7zd to the
         familiar pitfalls common to all eyewitness and secomi-hand reports.
         It mst be emphasized that, because the interrogators were not
     ‘always specialists in the field of parancrmal sciences, thexé is
      much lack of detail,                                         :

               h.     Whenever feasible, detachments of the Army's Interplanetary
         Phenomenon Unit, were dispatched to sites decmed worthy of investi-
         gation and recovering tangible evidence for scientific study,
