9JLY47
TOP SECRET
ARMY AIR FORCE
S-2 INTELLIGENCE ESTIMATE

  Over the past half century there have been
a number of incidents of qualified observ-
ers reporting unusual aerial objects. The
March 1904 edition of the Monthly     Weather
.Review indicates that Lt. F. H. Schofield,
Cdr., USS Supply,  reported observation of
three large luminous objects moving in for-
mation across the sky at 2300 hrs. This ob^
servation took place iiiraid-Atlantic.The
largest of the objects was estimated to
have a diameter six times that of the sun.
Their size was not known as dis-
tance/altitude could not be computed.
  The March 1913 issue of the Journal of the
Royal Astronomical Society carried a re-
port by Canadian astronomer R. Chant indi-
cating that numerous objects consisting of
"three or four parts with a tail to each
part" passed across the sky. Thirty-two ob-
jects were observed over the course of an
hour, moving in formations of various
kinds.
  An analysis of reports indicates that
large luminous objects have been recorded
in the night skies by qualified profes-
sional observers at a rate of two to ten per
annum since immediately before the turn of
the century.
  The first official investigation of such
                     113
objects began on 28 December 1933, when the
4th Swedish Plying Corps commenced a study
of "ghost aeroplanes" which had been ob-
served flying in impossible weather condi-
tions and often shining powerful lights on
the ground. The investigation concluded on
30 April 1934 with a statement by Ma-
jor General Lars Reuterswaerd, Commanding
General, Upper Norrland Aerial Sector.
General Reuterswaerd stated, "There can be
no doubt about illegal air traffic over our
secret military areas. . . . The question
is, who and what are they?"
  Ghost aircraft continued to be sighted
over Finland, Sweden and Norway, and caused
extensive local forces recce, to no firm
result. It is now^known that no nation then
had aircraft capable of operating in the
areas and manner in which the ghost craft
were observed to operate. Interestingly,
35% of Scandinavian sightings took place
during severe weather conditions.
  25 February 1942 saw unidentified air-
craft appearing over Los Angeles. 1,430
rounds of antiaircraft were expended in an
attempt to bring down these apparent Japa-
nese planes. Shelling commenced at 0316 and
continued until 0414 by 37th Coast Arty
Bgde using 12.8 lb HE shells. Three persons
were killed by the barrage. A large oval-
shaped object was targeted in lights and
struck by at least fifty rounds over a pe-
riod of twelve minutes. The object then
proceeded southward at a slow rate, ©f
                   114
speed. Chief of Staff Gen. George C. Mar-
shall informed the President of the inci-
dent on 26 February 1942. GHQ officially
denied that the incident had occurred.
  In recent years so-called "foo-fighters"
were observed by both Allied and Axis air-
men during aerial maneuvers, These objects
often appeared to maneuver in context with
aircraft and were sometimes fired upon, but
never with any visible effect. The British
set up the Massy Project under Lt. Gen. Hugh
R. S. Massy, ret., which studied the phe-
nomenon in 194 3, to no result. Similarly
the Luftwaffe created Sonderbiiro 13 under
Prof. Georg Kamper. U.S. 8th Army investi-
gated similarly, also with no outcome.
 During 1946 numerous apparent rockets
were observed over northern and central
Sweden, Finland, Norway and Denmark. A
total of 2,000 sightings were officially
logged. Our own intelligence indicates
that these were not Soviet-generated, and
their source remains a mystery. 11 July
194 6 U.S. embassy Stockholm cabled "one
landed on beach near Stockholm without
causing any damage and according to press
fragments are now being studied by military
authorities." 12 October 1946 the Swedish
government announced that 200 objects had
been detected by radar and could not be at-
tributed to known celestial phenomena,
hallucinations or airplanes. Subsequently
the Greek government investigated many re-
ports of such objects in their territory,
                    115
but once again there were no conclusive re-
sults regarding nature and origin. The ob-
jects were not Soviet missiles, because
they were observed to outrange any Soviet
device.
 The objects observed may be controlled by
some intelligent agency, whether it is a
human government, a clandestine private
group in possession of powerful technol-
ogy, or another as yet unknown source.
End.




                   116
