                                July 12, 1947
 TOP SECRET/MAJIC
 EXECUTIVE ORDER
 SUBJECT: ESTABLISHMENT OF MAJESTIC AGENCY
 FOR JOINT INTELLIGENCE (MAJIC)
 Copy 2 of 12
  The purpose of this agency will be to coordinate all United
  States activities connected in any way with nonhuman
  alien presence, including the management of the MAJES-
| TIC scientific group, military BLUE TEAM activities and
\ FBI/CIA(G) surveillance activities designed to establish
!
  and maintain all MAJIC-reJated operations at the highest
! level of security obtainable. The TOP SECRET/MAJIC
  classification is now the highest level of classification.
  MAJIC Initial Organizational Structure—MJ-t
  MAJIC is a coordinating and management group, reflect-
i ing the same centralization concept contained in recent
  legislation establishing the Central Intelligence Agency.
r MAJIC will be overseen by the Director of Central Intelli-
  gence, who will report on all MAJIC activities to the Presi-
  dent as appropriate and advisable.
  DCIA will receive the MAJIC Designation MJ-1. Admiral
  HiHenkoetter is appointed MJ-1(1) by order of the Presi-
  dent.
  Positions MJ-2-4 are MAJIC administrative positions.
  Should project SIGMA (referenced below) succeed, MJ-
  1 will institute project PLATO, seeking to establish ongo-
  ing communications of a diplomatic or negotiational na-
  ture with the aliens. The first objective of this project will
                              217
be to attempt to control alien incursions into US airspace
and alien contact with US citizens.
MJ-2 Position
MJ-2 is the designation for Director, MAJIC Operations.
Mr. Wilfred Stone is appointed Director, MAJIC Opera-
tions, MJ-2, by order of the President Further appoint-
ments within the Operational Group to follow. The primary <
responsibilities of the MJ-2 position will be two. The first ]
will be administrative and collational, gathering and syn- j
thesizing all output from all other MAJIC positions and
transmitting them in an orderly manner to MJ-1. The sec-
ond will be diplomatic. MJ-2 will create an office (Designa-
tion: SIGMA) that will seek means of communicating with
the aliens.                                                  :
MJ-3 Position
The MJ-3 position is the Civilian Operations Coordinator
responsible for propaganda and maintenance of public ig-
norance in the face of extensive and obvious alien acth/i- ,
ties, which include substantial and publicly visible flyovers
of Unidentified Flying Objects (UFOs) and Identified Alien '
Craft (lACs). They also apparently include the abduction
of civilians as well as military personnel for unknown rea-
sons. The primary MJ-3 mission is to guard the fact that '
government cannot prevent these activities and does not
know their purpose. MJ-3 will operate a program of denial
andridicule.The natural skepticism of Journalists will be
enlisted by total, absolute and blanket denial of any and
all sightings, disappearances, observations of landed
craft, etc. This program will be carried out no matter how
obvious the truth of a given report It is essential that NO
                           218
  sighting no matter how obvious be explained as an "un-
  known." Such explanation may lead to difficult questions
  and journalistic demands and will threaten this program.
  Further, MJ-3 will orchestrate theridiculeof civilians who
  come forward with witness accounts. If they are persist-
  ent, such civilians will be methodically discredited. Per-
  sons associated with scientific institutions and
  universities who are too interested in this subject will be
  warned away. Should they persist strong measures will
  be taken as appropriate. The atmosphere of denial and
• ridicule is intended to curtail public understanding, and
1
  frighten non-MAJIC-associated scientists into ignoring
  the whole area. MJ-3 will also be responsible for the infil-
  tration of "flying saucer" study groups now springing up
  as a by-product of recent radio and newspaper attention.
  All cover operations will be coordinated by MJ-3.

• MJ-4 Position
  The MJ-4 Position is Coordinator of Military Activities. The
  Army Air Force BLUE TEAM set up to retrieve alien ob-
 jects and remains will advise MJ-4 of all its activities. All
  MAJIC-related military operations will be coordinated by
  this office, including those carried out after the impending
 transfer of BLUE TEAM to Air Materiel Command from its
  present S-2 Intelligence status. MJ-4 will manage Project
  REDLIGHT in cooperation with AFMC and AFOC with the
  mission of flying any intact alien craft that may be recov-
  ered. A civilian-based National Reconnaissance Organi-
  zation will be established to provide site security for ail
  activities relating to alien craft, their movements and at-
  tempts to fly them.
                             219
MJ-5 Position
The MJ-5 Position is Coordinator of Security. AH incoming
personnel must receive MAJIC clearance. This clearance
can only be granted to persons able to pass the most
stringent tests of background and loyalty. MAJIC clear-
ance will be given only after stringent FBI clearance in-
vestigation. Should a situation develop where MAJIC
clearance cannot be extended to a given elected individ-
ual above the MJ-1 level, that individual will be isolated
from all knowledge of MAJIC for the duration of his term
of office. MAJIC clearance procedures apply to all per-
sons exposed to any MAJIC information, no matter how
trivial, and will be applied to elected as well as appointed
officials.
                                                                 i
 MJ-6 Position                                               .
The MJ-6 position is an internal executive position. MJ-6 \
is responsible for all record-keeping and isolation of \
MAJIC-related files within the Library of Congress and re- \
lated collection centers such as military document cen-
ters. This position will maintain not only a record-keeping :
division but also a research division that will be devoted
to the discovery and classification of related isolates from •
other branches, such as FBI or Air Force documents that '
incidentally refer to MAJIC, MAJESTIC or related activi-
ties. It will coordinate aH activities with MJ-9.
MJ-7 Position
MJ-7 is Coordinator of Allied Relations. MJ-7 will develop
liaison with presently forming Allied alien activities organi-
zations. MJ-7(A) will provide civilian liaison to these or-
ganizations, and MJ-7(B) will provide military liaison.
                            220
 IJ-S Position
 U-8 is Coordinator of Soviet Bloc Relations. MJ-8 win at-
empt to create an atmosphere of complete and open
sharing of information, in view of the apparently hostile
lature of the alien incursion and the obvious need to co-
operate at the highest levels in order to achieve a mean-
ngful and. effective human response to the possible
arrival of massive alien force.

MJ-9 Position
MJ-9 is Project Historian. The historical mission is twofold.
First, historians shall be enlisted to attempt to determine
the extent of alien activity prior to the present time. Sec-
ond, a MAJIC Historical Bureau shall receive all docu-
ments from all units and prepare and maintain a large-
scale historical resource for use in briefing and as a
source of reference.

MJ-10 to MJ-12 Positions
These are scientific positions.
MJ-10 Position
MJ-10 is Coordinator for the Physical Sciences. Sub-
groups will include Astrophysics, Propulsion, Electromag-
netics, Particle and Atomic Physics and other areas to be
added as needed. The primary mission of the MJ-10 posi-
tion is to collect data and provide meaningful answers re-
garding the science behind the amazing alien craft and
their apparent mastery of such forces as gravity, and the
nature, capabilities, and limitations of their weapons.
HJ-11 Position
MJ-11 is Coordinator for Biological and Behavioral Sci-

                            221
ences. The mission of the MJ-11 position is to collect in
formation as to the nature of alien biology, brain functior
and behavior. It is especially important it be determinec
if any viruses, bacteria, gases, chemicals or radioactive
elements might be effective as weapons.
MJ-12 Position
MJ-12 is overall Coordinator of Scientific Activities. Under
MJ-12 will be two subsidiary positions, MJ-12(A) and MJ-
12(B). MJ-12(A) will be coordinator of defense-related sci
entific activities, with priority on the development of weap-
ons/strategies which will provide the US with an effective
deterrent where none whatsoever now exists. MJ-12(B)
wHI be coordinator of other scientific activities, with priority
on the understanding of the physical nature of the aliens
and their motives/objectives.




                             222

                                                            •i
