                            TOP SECRET
                              UMBRA


~ NSA INTERCEPT OF THE “HOT LINE”



 ETCRRM TX HOURLY TEST
 FROM: OOTP
 TO   :PUSSR
 SUBJ: UFO WORKING GROUPS


 WHCA
 SOD.
 DCIA
 DNSA
 NMCC
 CICS
 SECSTATE
 NSC


 “Mr. Premiere a situation has developed that affects both our
 countries and the world and I feel it necessary to convey to you a
 problem that we share in common.”

 “Mr. President I agree.”

 “As you must appreciate the tension between our two great nations
 has often brought us to the brink of showmanship with all the
 tapestry of a Greek comedy and our impasse last year was foolish
 and deadly. The division that separates us is through
 misunderstanding, politics, and cultural differences. Fut we have
 one thing in common which I would like to address to vour
 working group on the UFO problem.”

 “Yes, yes...I agree with your assessment. We nearly tied the knot
 that divides us permanently. Our working group believes the same
 way as yours. The UFO problem presents grave dangers to our
 countries and to the whole world. If we allow suspicions and
 miscalculations to force our military defense systems to react. to
 this problem...God will never forgive us."


_“Then_you agree Mr. Premiere that we should cooperate together on
 this issue?”

 “Yes, Mr. President.”

 “Mr. Premiere, I have begun an initiative with our NASA to
 exchange information with your Academy of Sciences in which I
 hope will foster mutual concern over this problem and hopefully
 find some resolution. I have also instructed our CLA to provide me
 with full disclosure on the phantom aspects and classified.
 programs in which IJ can better assess the situation. Can you
 persuade your KGB to do likewise."


 “Mr. President, I cannot guarantee full cooperation in this area but
 J owe it to future history and the security of our planet to try. As
 you must know [ have been somewhat limited in my official
 capacity as Party Chairman to order such cooperation in this area.
 We too feel that the UFO is a matter of highest importance to our
 collective security. If I can arrange for a secret meeting between
 our working groups at a secret location and at a time designated by
 you, I feel that this much on my part can happen.”

 “Mr. Premiere, if a meeting at this level can convene it will be a
 important first step. It will lead to more dialog and trust between
 our countries and reduce the ever present threat of nuclear war.”

 “Yes, Mr. President it will.”

 “Then we are in agreement.”

 “Yes.”
“Until we talk again, this conversation is classified top secret
between us.”

“Yes. Until we talk again.”
